Okay, the tape is rolling.
Have you always been interested in war gaming and fantasy gaming? How did you
start getting interested in this? No, I haven't always been interested in it. I
didn't know anything about war gaming until Dungeons & Dragons came out.
Dungeons & Dragons arrived commercially in California in 1974. I think it was.
And my children, I have two grown sons now, had heard about it from some friends
at school and told me about it because they were sure I would be interested, and
I was. We went out and bought a copy of the game and tried to learn to play it.
And I actually learned about the other kinds of war gaming with miniature
soldiers and things like that from playing Dungeons & Dragons. And reading about
that and going to the stores where they sell it. Okay, when was that then? That
was late 1974, early 1975. That was about the time that I wrote to Gary Gygax,
who's the inventor of Dungeons & Dragons, or the co-inventor of Dungeons &
Dragons, and told him that the original set of instruction booklets that they
had put out was impossible really to understand if you hadn't seen a game
played. If you had seen somebody play a game, you could then go back to the rule
books and pick out the information that you needed. And that what they needed
was an introductory book for people who had never seen a game. And he wrote me
back a nice letter and said, Yeah, you're right. That's true. And would you be
willing to try writing such a book? So I did. I wrote what is usually called the
basic set rule books about 70-odd pages long on how to learn to play Dungeons &
Dragons. It's in the second edition now, and the second edition has been edited
by somebody else. And I'm listed as the editor and not the writer, because Gygax
and Aronson really wrote the game, and all I did was edit it. So I think it was
a lot easier for a beginner to understand. Which one of the sets of rules that
you edited? Well, as I say, it's called basic set Dungeons & Dragons. And it
sells in a box with usually a module game and some odds and ends. And the new
edition has a different picture on the box and has been edited by somebody else
who is credited with editing it. If you've ever seen it, it's a blue pamphlet
with a big dragon on the cover. Yeah, that's the one that I had. Now, what I was
getting after was, which of the books did you take? Which of the original books
did you take and then compile or edit down into? All of them. Well, that's one
of the problems with the original set of little booklets. Gygax and Aronson were
playing the game, and there was a demand from people who had heard about it for
a rule set. And they sat down and wrote up the thing. They'd published some
rules, or Gygax had published some rules for other games before. And they made
up three little booklets. And the rules for how to play the game were just
scattered through the three books kind of at random. And there's very little in
the way of table of contents and no index. So that it's impossible to find
something except by flipping through the pages of all three of the books. And
then they put out a series of supplements. Half a dozen probably supplements.
And new rules were included in those kind of at random as well. So what I did
was go through all that stuff and try and make a coherent little booklet out of
it so that a beginner could start out and devise characters and plan a scenario
and play through a game without being totally lost. All right. Can you give us a
little bit of background about how Vengeance and Dragons got started? Yeah. I
can tell you my understanding of it from having talked to Gary Gygax. Gary had
been playing war games with miniature figures for years. And he and some friends
had devised a series of rules for medieval warfare, armored knights and
horseback and things like that. And they had included, since everybody had read
Tolkien's Lord of the Rings, they had included in those rules, rules for how to
fight trolls and goblins and dragons and other kinds of creatures out of the
books. So they had a, it was called chain mail. It was a little set of rules
which was predominantly how to fight toy soldier battles. The people who do war
gaming don't like to have them called toy soldiers. They like to have them
called miniature figures. But somebody coming into the field from outside would
think of them as toy soldiers. How to fight the battles using the fantasy
elements. And then Aronson had designed the first dungeon. And run some games in
which people had to do a quest inside a dungeon and find a treasure and read
maps and hunt their way through and kill the monsters who were in there. And
that's essentially what the game is. They just combine those two elements
together. And more people heard about it. And the game spread by word of mouth.
And they published this little set of rule books. And again, the publicity, as
far as I know, was entirely by word of mouth from like science fiction
conventions or game conventions. More and more people heard about it. More and
more people bought the rule books. And the thing was with gradually booming. It
took Gygax a year or so to sell his first set of rule books. And, of course, now
he runs a million-dollar industry with 30 or 40 employees making up not only
Dungeons & Dragons with other kinds of games. But really, it's a company that
Dungeons & Dragons created.
Now, fixing to ask you a really broad question here that you have answered in
your book. But what do you suppose is behind the popularity of the Dungeons &
Dragons game? Well, I think that, to begin with, there isn't any one answer to
that. There probably are several answers. The answer that Gygax gives is to say,
well, in modern life, people don't get to have interesting adventures. And so
there's a real need in everybody's heart to be an adventurer. And here's a
chance to do that in the course of a game without actually getting hurt doing
it. And I think that that is part of it. I'm sure that the popularity of
Tolkien's Lord of the Rings was part of it. Of course, you can then ask me why
was Tolkien's Lord of the Rings so popular, and I'm not sure that I know the
entire answer to that either.
But playing the game is different from reading a story. If you read a story, you
can kind of imagine yourself being the hero. And if the story's well written,
you can really get into the hero's problems, and you can see the wonders that he
sees and the excitement that he experiences. And with a good author, you can
really enjoy that. But you have to do what the author says the hero does, if
you're imagining being that hero. So you can close the book and imagine how you
might have handled things or what might happen if you had lived in those times.
And there were a lot of people in the country at the time that Dungeons &
Dragons were created who kind of had daydreams about what they would do if they
were hobbits or if they were dwarves or if they were elves or heroes. And in the
game, you come a lot closer to being a hobbit or a dwarf or an elf or a hero or
a wizard than you do in just reading about it or that you do in just imagining
it all by yourself because you have several other people playing with you. And
let's say you decide that you want to be a wizard, and all your friends agree
that you are a wizard or that your character in the game, but you start talking
about that person as if it were yourself, is a wizard. And for, you know, four
to six hours once a week in the evening, you feel like you really are that
person. And that's a lot more exciting than just reading about such a person.
That your alternate reality persona becomes a very real thing. And when a person
like that gets killed in the course of the game, as happens extremely
frequently, people get very upset because it's a real part of themselves that
gets destroyed.
I think it's a marvelous invention. It's a combination of play acting and
creative storytelling and regular game mechanics. The regular game mechanics are
involved in rolling dice to decide who wins a battle or whether a spell goes off
and things like that or whether the trap door jam's shut. The game mechanics are
quite complicated, but they're just a way of putting a chance factor into
things. It's a tremendous invention. And I don't think, really, that there'd
been anything before that was quite comparable to it. And I suspect that it
would have caught on at any particular period in history. I think it just
happened to be invented in the 1970s. But it happened to be invented and
happened to be invented about a fantasy world. You know, there are role-playing
games about almost anything else you can imagine. There's a role-playing game in
which you pretend to be a gunslinger in the Wild West. As a matter of fact,
there are several. There are role-playing games in which you pretend to be a
comic book superhero. For people who have read Watership Down, there are role
-playing games in which you pretend to be a talking rabbit.
So that you can, once you've mastered the basic principles of role-playing
games, you can take on any kind of alternate reality that you want and pretend
to be just about anything as long as you can get some friends to play with you
and to agree. They have to agree, of course, to allow you to do that. Does that
answer the question, or did I just wander beside it there for a while? No, that
answered the question very well. I'm going to be at a loss to figure out exactly
what to cut out in order to make that fit into a show.
You've got a university professor on the phone who's accustomed to giving 50
-minute lectures, and I rarely answer a question in short order.
The factors that led to the wide acceptance of the game, I think, have to do
with the fact that the game is a unique experience. It's really different than
playing most games, and it's different than reading an imaginative story. It's a
little more active and a little more exciting. And so it has appealed to a large
number of people, mostly young people, mostly male, but quite a few women as
well.
And, you know, I think it just turned out, Gygax was lucky, it turned out that
there was a big audience waiting for something like that.
Yeah, in my research, such as it is, I've come to that self-same conclusion that
Dungeons and Dragons was something whose time had come, and Gygax just happened
to be the person who came up with it. Yeah, isn't that so often true of any
invention or fad, right, that catches on is that there's an audience ready for
something like this, and then somebody is lucky enough to come up with something
that catches their imagination. And then it spreads very rapidly. One of the
things that impresses me about Dungeons and Dragons was how rapidly it spread
with, as far as I know, in the beginning, no advertising at all. Now, of course,
there's a big advertising campaign. To continue to increase the audience.
Right. What is your involvement with TSR right now? Well, I have no official
relationship to TSR, except that, you know, I have some friends there, and I
would count Gygax as a personal friend. And he made an arrangement with me when
I edited the beginner's book that they would supply me with games and magazines
for free for the rest of my life. So I get a copy of everything that the company
produces.
And I attend the conventions, and usually when I do that, I do some beginner's
games, because I figure that the thing that I'm most expert at is how to learn
to play. But I don't have any official position with the company or really any
contract or anything else with them. The book, Fantasy Role-Playing Games, was
written for another company entirely. And as an attempt to cover the entire
field, not just the Dungeons & Dragons part itself, although Dungeons & Dragons
is the most important part of the role-playing game field. Yes, I did get your
book from, let's see, Hippocrine. Hippocrine Press in New York, not one of your
better-known publishing companies. They do, however, publish a number of books
in wargaming, and that's how I came in contact with them. They published a book
on board wargames, which I thought was very good, and had a lot of nice
photographs in it, and I wrote to them and suggested that I write a book about
this kind of games, and they were glad to do that. Yeah, I read your article in
Locus Magazine a couple of issues back, and that's what got me trying to track
you down. Oh, I see, yeah. Well, I'm glad to know that somebody had read the
review in Locus. I prepared a second review to cover other kinds of science
fiction games, but they decided that that was enough. They'd had enough with
games. After they published that first one. I also wrote an article in
Psychology Today called Confessions of a Dungeon Master, which is mostly
humorous anecdotes and a little bit about the psychology of people playing a
role-playing game. And I frequently get telephone interviews on the basis of
that. That actually has had wider circulation than the Locus article or the
book.
Which issue of Psychology Today? Let's see. That was in 1980, November 1980, was
when that article in Psychology Today came out. And it has a tremendous
illustration that one of the artists for the magazine did. I tell a story about,
I'm a professor at the USC Medical School, and I tell a story about the fact
that I have a game of Dungeons & Dragons, I did at that time, I don't know, that
I dungeon mastered every month, that the game players were mostly doctors and
medical students and nurses and scientists from the medical school. And the
artists do an illustration showing a series of monsters sitting around the
gaming table, moving little figures which represent doctors and nurses and
scientists on a huge board. It's just great. There must have been playing a game
that I came up with called Doctors and Ditch Diggers. Oh, yeah. You see, you can
make up a role-playing game to fit any particular role that you're interested in
playing. There's a cartoon that TSR published, too, in which the wizard and the
dwarf and the elf are sitting around the table, and they say it's a game called
Papers and Paychecks, in which we pretend to be students and workers in an
industrial society. Right. Yeah, that's in the DM's Guide. Yeah, I think it is.
Yeah, that's a great cartoon. Yeah. Let's explode a few myths here, or
misconceptions, as they were. Tell us about the story of the kid from Minnesota
and what really happened. Yeah. Wasn't there a college student from Michigan who
got killed playing live Dungeons and Dragons in the steam tunnels under Michigan
State University? No, there wasn't. There was a college student at University of
Michigan, or Michigan State, I've forgotten which it was, who disappeared and
his family couldn't find him. He was a Dungeons and Dragons player. And one of
the things that the investigators, and they hired a private detective, family
hired a private detective to try and locate him. One of the things that he found
was a series of maps, which were probably Dungeons and Dragons maps, a lot of
mysterious maps. And somebody suggested that they were maps of the steam tunnels
underneath the university and that people had been playing Dungeons and Dragons
in the steam tunnels. As far as I know, that's never really been proven to be
the case, that anybody was actually playing in the steam tunnels. Anyway, he
turned up alive. He showed up, and I think he had gone to visit some member of
his family some distance away. And when there was enough publicity, there was a
lot of publicity about this. A lot of television and radio news coverage of it
when it occurred. Partly, I think, because the news media people sensed that
this was a weird cult, like the Jonestown massacre thing, which had occurred a
year or so before. And they thought they were on to something really bizarre.
But he turned up alive, and his disappearance had to do with his own personal
life and his own personal problems, I guess. And it had nothing to do with his
playing Dungeons and Dragons. But as far as I know, that's where the story ends.
You know, there are rumors about what's happened to him since, but I don't know
of any secure information. There's been one novel based on that incident. It's
called Mazes and Monsters, and it's by Rona Jaffe. And it's about college
students who are playing a game called, not Dungeons and Dragons, but Mazes and
Monsters. And the students get very involved in the game, and they all have deep
psychological problems. And one of them flips out and thinks that he's really
the character that he plays in the game. It's a good novel. The psychology of it
is, I think, rather badly flawed. But I say that as a professional person who
deals with abnormal psychology. As a psychological thriller of a novel, I think
it's really very good. Yeah, I've seen that book. I plan to read it before I put
together this program. Yeah. Well, I enjoyed it. I enjoyed the novel. You know,
it's well written, and I really got worried about those college students. You
know from page one that one of them is going to lose his or her mind, and you
really worry about who it's going to be and what's going to happen to him. So I
won't spoil it for you by telling you what happens. It has a surprise ending,
I'll tell you that. And there's supposed to be another novel and maybe a movie
based on the disappearance thing in the works. The people at PSR Hobbies, as far
as I know, were really very unhappy about the whole business, particularly about
the weird cult publicity that they got. Although apparently they got so much
publicity that they ended up selling a lot more games in the long run and not
doing them any harm. But they weren't particularly overjoyed about it, I know,
any more than they are about the publicity they get. Every once in a while,
somebody suggests that the game should not be played in public schools or, you
know, should not be taught after school or something like that because it is an
initiation into the occult and into demonology. Have you heard those stories?
Yes. Why don't you elaborate on that a little bit and see if you can, no, not
see if you can, you already have in your book, give the same reasons how come
this isn't the case. Well, the accusation usually is that the game is dangerous
because it's actually teaching children, of course the people who are playing
the game are frequently adults and not children, but, you know, it depends on
what age you consider to be a child, and there certainly are plenty of people 12
years old playing the game, teaching them, you know, evil occult and
demonological ritual. And the people who make these accusations, as it turns
out, are extremely religious people, fundamentalist religious people, who really
believe in the existence of the devil and his demons.
And demons are in the game. There are rules for playing demons. I rarely use
them in my own game because I prefer to use monsters out of other sources,
literature, or dinosaurs or something like that, just because they're more fun
for me. But there certainly are rules for using demons. And if you really
believed in the existence of demons, then I can see that you would not think
that a game that made fun of them and in which people pretended to raise demons
and do battle with them was something that you wanted your children to be
playing after school. But the reason that there are demons in the game is that
demons are mythological monsters just like dragons. And the game is called
Dungeons and Dragons. And nobody's particularly worried about children learning
to play a game in which they kill dragons, I don't think. I haven't heard
anybody in any way being worried about that. I haven't heard about, you know,
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Dragons or something complaining about
the game. But the flap over the use of the game, particularly its use as a club
in a high school or something like that, usually ends up to be involved with
this controversy about how serious do you take demonology. And if you're serious
about it, then you don't want to have it as a game or even as part of a game
that's being taught in a school system. I've read some of the religious tracks
that have been published about, particularly about Dungeons and Dragons, but
about any of the role-playing games. And that's the major criticism. And I
think, you know, that's it. Either you have those religious beliefs or you
don't. And if you don't, why then you can, you know, you can make fun of demons.
And you can also have a game like Dungeons and Dragons where you can pretend to
meet the gods for, or Odin, or Ra, or Set, or, you know. And if you were
religious about those subjects, you'd probably be offended, too. But nobody yet
has said anything about being offended by the fact that the Greek gods also
appear in the rules for the game. The other criticism of the game is that
there's a lot of violence in it. And that's certainly true. There is a lot of
violence in the game. It is all imaginary violence. And I don't know that anyone
can make a definitive defense against that criticism. There's too much violence
in the world, and there's some of it in this game. The only real defense I can
make is that in a game of Dungeons and Dragons, nobody really gets hurt. But you
do imagine that people get hurt and killed. And maybe that's bad, and maybe it's
not all bad either, because when a beloved character gets killed, you realize
that it isn't funny when somebody gets killed. It can be very sad.
To some extent, the game is based on a wonderful novel, The Lord of the Rings,
in which a lot of people get killed. There's a lot of violence in that, too, as
there is in most of literature. So I guess the only defense against the
statement that there's too much violence in the game is to say, well, it's hard
to decide what's too much. And when you have a dramatic story, there's almost
always considerable violence involved.
And there's some of these issues, and there's some of these issues that I've
heard of. And they had a religious program on, and they were talking about
these,
let's see if I can't remember, occult games they were playing, and he was
holding up the Deities and Demigods handbook from D&D, and waving it around, and
ranting and raving. Yeah. Yeah, well, you know, and there are a lot of occult
gods and demons in the Deities and Demigods handbook. It's just a matter of
whether you take that seriously or not. I don't take it seriously. But
apparently some people do. I would be more worried about somebody who maybe is,
you know, dead serious about one of those ancient religions, as Hinduism, for
instance, is in Deities and Demigods, and that's not a dead religion. Objecting
to, you know, somebody giving Krishna
so many hit points in a game. I might be offended by that if I was really
serious about the religion. I don't know that there's been any such complaint
yet, though. Gygax has been very careful to avoid the Christian religion.
Jehovah is not in Deities and Demigods.
Now, that was probably a wise move in his path. Oh, yeah. Well, you know, I
don't know Gary real well, but I have definitely the impression from talking to
him that he is himself a rather religious person. And I don't think that it
would even occur to him to make fun of Christian religion in his game, if he
could possibly avoid it. Just as Tolkien, you know, who wrote Lord of the Rings,
was a very strong and very religious Christian.
Okay.
Let's see. Maybe I can, uh, ask this question in any specific way to draw out
some of the things you talked about. Now, the type of people that play Dungeons
& Dragons, um, it's, um, what type of person do you think is sort of, uh, drawn
to the game? Well, uh, the kind of people that play Dungeons & Dragons that,
what little is known about, uh, who buys the game, and I guess the data comes
largely from stores and distributors and so on. Uh, I've heard quoted is that
the average Dungeons & Dragons player is a middle class white male age 13. Um,
certainly a lot of other kinds of people play the game. Um, I'm 52 myself. I
don't know very many other 52-year-old university professors who admit to
playing Dungeons & Dragons. I know some who play it with their, their families
and their children, however, and I've had a lot of fun doing that. And certainly
there are younger people playing the game. Um, but it's largely a, uh, a game of
high school, junior high, and college student age people, and mostly people who
are in school. Um, it, uh, it's a game that requires not only a considerable
amount of imagination, but, uh, a lot of intellectual work. If you're going to
set up the game, you have to do a lot of reading, uh, and, um, and a lot of
background work. it's like preparing a term paper, really, to prepare for a
game. Uh, you spend hours and hours, uh, setting the game up. So that, I think
it appeals to people who are probably above average in intelligence, uh, and who
are unusually imaginative, and who read a lot. Uh, many of them have read a lot
of the fantasy novels on which the, much of the game is based already. Uh,
having said all those complimentary things about it, um, it also appeals to
people who don't have any other outlet for their, uh, competitive and, and
social, uh, and, uh, what, uh, you know, sports-like urges. Uh, you don't find a
whole lot of real good athletes who are interested in playing Dungeons and
Dragons. They have other outlets. You don't find people who, uh, spend a lot of
time, uh, uh, uh, socializing, for instance, with members of the opposite sex.
Um, that's not to say that everybody who plays the game is an inhibited nerd,
but, um, I would say that people like that are apt to form the majority of
players in, uh, in any sort of college or high school environment. Uh, people
who are simply not able to, uh, compete a lot in athletics and who may not be
quite as, uh, socially adept as the, uh, leaders in the, uh, whatever, uh,
social group they're in, we're more apt to spend a lot of time with the game
because it is an outlet for their energies and it is a way of getting together
with friends. It's not a lonely sport. It's a, it's a group participation thing.
Um, and it does give you something to talk about and, um, it's a way of meeting
new people which, uh, sometimes is something that people are desperately looking
for. Does that kind of answer the, the question without sounding too nasty about
it and remembering that I play the game a lot myself? Right, very good. Okay.
Um, let me see here. Uh, you, you, you're still playing the game? Yeah, mm-hmm,
yeah, I don't play it as much as I would like to since the birth of my baby
daughter because she takes up a lot of my time but, yeah, I still play. I still
have a room full of books and metal figures, only some of which are painted, uh,
and it still occupies a considerable part of my time. Yeah, uh, in fact, uh,
there are two people here with me, uh, that are listening in through the, uh,
phone system. One, one of them and another person and I have formed a company
which we hope to produce some products, uh, that will marry with a fantasy
gaming system. Yeah, well, it looks like it's still a good field to get into,
um, I haven't talked at length to Gygax for over a year now, but when I did talk
to him over a year ago, he said that for reasons that he didn't understand, the
recession hadn't hit his company or the role-playing game industry as yet, and
they were still expanding, um, um, and he was still hiring more people and
producing more products and more people were coming into the field and
publishing additional games and other material, and, you know, they were
continuing to expand. He's now selling in, um, all English-speaking countries,
certainly Canada, England, Australia, New Zealand, there's a, um, there's a game
magazine that's published in, in England, like, uh, Dragon magazine is published
by TSR, and I think probably as soon as Dungeons and Dragons gets translated
into, uh, French and Italian and Japanese, there will be a whole big market
there as well. So, it's, it's still a good field, and there's still plenty of,
uh, room for improvement.
Yeah. Um,
let's talk a little bit about, how the game is played. If you were expanding to
somebody, uh, let's say I was a person and I go, you know, they'll answer this,
it's too much at length, remembering I'm sure it's five minutes long. Yeah. Uh,
but if I was a person and I asked you, what is Dungeons and Dragons anyway, how
would you answer that? Okay, as briefly as possible. Um, Dungeons and Dragons,
or the other role-playing games, are a game where, um, a group of people get
together and one of them devises the kind of skeleton outline of a story. Uh, in
Dungeons and Dragons would be a story about fabulous treasure or a monster in a
cave or in a dungeon or something like that. And the other people, each one of
them takes the part of a single adventurer. and in Dungeons and Dragons you can
be an elf or a dwarf or a hobbit or a wizard or a hero. and, and then they
pretend to go into the story and try and solve the mystery or find the treasure
or whatever and they all sit around the table and do this and they decide how
things come out if they have to, to, um, decide how an event occurs by just
rolling dice and consulting a table in the book to see how the things occur. So
it's a story that's built up by a group of friends working together between
them. That's, that's what it is, really.
Very good. Yes, that's one of the best and most concise explanations I've heard
of the game. Thank you. I've had to give that explanation a lot of time. A lot
of practice. Yeah. One of the things that happens when you have a game that's
like that is that that means that no two games are ever the same. Uh, because
each group of people does it their own way. Uh, and so there is no standard
game, really, that anybody plays. Everybody plays a special game that works only
for, for that small group at that particular time. I think that's one of the
reasons why people find it difficult to understand the rules when they set out.
They expect the game to be a little more completely laid out for them in the
rulebook. One of the problems that I've run into is I've had people say, well, I
got this. They'll tell me they bought my rulebook, you know, the one that I
edited, and they'll say, and I tried to understand it and I can't understand how
to play the game at all and I'm embarrassed, you know, because I spent a lot of
time trying to write the rulebook so that people could understand it. I think
part of it is that they don't realize that every game is going to be different.
I certainly wouldn't want to have tried to have done what you did. Trying to
explain something as open-ended as D&D is where I guess almost 50% of it is made
up by the people who play it as they go along. Something like that would be, you
did a very credible job in what you did. Well, thank you. It's nice of you to
say so. I think the, I wish I could remember the name of the guy who edited the
second edition. I really ought to mention his name. But I think the revised
basic rulebook is even better than my original one. They have the advantage of
working from mine and trying to answer a lot of questions since. And I think it
does answer some questions better than I did. And it's somewhat better put
together and actually has an index. a list of books that you should read for
background, which is a nice book list. It has some things that I wish I'd put
into my own book.
Yeah. Sounds like they took a little bit from the DM's guide and sort of melded
that in there. Yeah. Well, it's supposed to lead you up to, of course, if you
get interested, then going out and buying the Dungeon Master's guide. The people
at TSR are not crazy. They've got a lot of products to sell. And if they can get
you interested in one of their products, you're probably going to go out and buy
all the rest of them. That's what most people do. end up spending quite a bit of
money on the rule books alone. And then, of course, if you buy little metal
figures, you can shoot $100 very easily buying beautiful little metal figures
and paying them for the game. Yeah, I know. I think that was my downfall. When I
decided that I wanted to DM games, I decided I wanted little metal monsters.
Yeah. Uh-huh. And I have hundreds of little metal figures. I have thousands. And
I have no money. I know exactly how you feel. Unfortunately, I got my, the
people who played the game with me, I had several games going for a while. I got
them so they expected that if I said, you come around the corner and you need a,
that I would put the metal figure down on the table in front of them and they
could see what it was. And that meant that every time I introduced a new monster
or a set of monsters, I had to go out and buy the metal figures and get them
painted before the game for that week. And not only is it expensive, it's very
time-consuming. It is a lot of fun, though. I can truthfully say I know exactly
how you feel. Is that something? I have a table at home, and, well, you can't
even see the table really. All it is is paints and boxes and cartons and bags of
little metal guys. Little metal figures. Yeah, I have a table like that. And
someday I'm going to sit down and paint them all because a lot of them are
really neat and I just haven't had time to get around to them yet.
Yeah, like any hobby, it becomes an addiction.
Yeah, I'm into it with all four feet mess up. Yeah, right. Well, people will ask
if you're not crazy to spend that much time on a hobby, but you'll find plenty
of people who spend that much time and money on
records or sporting events or even chess and bridge and tennis and skiing and
scuba diving. Any good hobby is apt to become an obsession, and any good hobby
has the potential for being incredibly expensive if you really get into it.
Yeah.
My trouble is that that's only one of my hobbies. It's not the only one. They're
all expensive. Yeah, I think we covered everything here. Can you think of anything?
No, I think
the things that we wanted to talk about was what is the game. You know that, but
for the benefit of the people who are going to be listening to your show, you
might want to have that, And then a discussion of who plays it and is
there anything seriously wrong about it? Is it dangerous in any particular way?
I don't think it is. I think we've covered a list of that probably more
exhaustively than you really wanted to, but I wish you a lot of luck in editing
the tape. I'd love to hear it sometime. Oh, yeah. There's no problem there. Let
me, I'm shutting down the recording equipment.